# Proposed Rule  

[Federal Register Volume 89, Number 85 (Wednesday, May 1, 2024)]  
[Proposed Rules]  
[Pages 35028-35032]  
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]  
[FR Doc No: 2024-08829]  
  
  
=======================================================================  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
DEPARTMENT OF STATE  
  
22 CFR Part 126  
  
[Public Notice: 12377]  
RIN 1400-AF84  
  
  
International Traffic in Arms Regulations: Exemption for Defense   
Trade and Cooperation Among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the   
United States  
  
AGENCY: Department of State.  
  
ACTION: Proposed rule.  
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
SUMMARY: The Department of State (the Department) proposes to amend the   
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) to support the goals   
of the AUKUS partnership, the enhanced trilateral security partnership   
among Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. This   
exemption is designed to foster defense trade and cooperation between   
and among the United States and two of its closest allies. It is   
reflective of our nations' collective commitment to implement shared   
security standards on protecting defense technology and sensitive   
military know-how. To achieve this, the Department proposes to amend   
the ITAR to include an exemption to the requirement to obtain a license   
or other approval from the Department's Directorate of Defense Trade   
Controls (DDTC) prior to any export, reexport, retransfer, or temporary   
import of defense articles; the performance of defense services; or   
engagement in brokering activities between or among authorized users   
within Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The   
Department also proposes to add a list of defense articles and defense   
services excluded from eligibility for transfer under the proposed new   
exemption; add to the scope of the exemption for intra-company, intra-  
organization, and intra-governmental transfers to allow for the   
transfer of classified defense articles to certain dual nationals who   
are authorized users or regular employees of an authorized user within   
the United Kingdom and Australia; and revise the section on expediting   
license review applications by referencing new processes for Australia,   
the United Kingdom, and Canada.  
  
DATES: Send comments on or before May 31, 2024.  
  
ADDRESSES: Interested parties may submit comments by one of the   
following methods:  
     Email: [email protected], with the subject line   
``Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States ITAR Exemption''  
     Internet: At www.regulations.gov, search for this notice   
using Docket DOS-2024-0013.  
    Those submitting comments should not include any personally   
identifying information they do not desire to be made public or   
information for which a claim of confidentiality is asserted. Comments   
and/or transmittal emails will be made available for public inspection   
and copying after the close of the comment period via the Directorate   
of Defense Trade Controls website at www.pmddtc.state.gov. Parties who   
wish to comment anonymously may submit comments via   
www.regulations.gov, leaving identifying fields blank.  
  
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Engda Wubneh, Foreign Affairs   
Officer, Office of Defense Trade Controls Policy, U.S. Department of   
State, telephone (771) 205-9566; email [email protected],   
ATTN: Regulatory Change, ITAR Section 126.7 Australia, the United   
Kingdom, and the United States Exemption.  
  
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 15, 2021, the leaders of   
Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States announced an   
intention to deepen ``diplomatic, security, and defense cooperation to   
meet the challenges of the twenty-first century'' through the creation   
of AUKUS, an enhanced trilateral security partnership. Reflective of   
the goals of AUKUS, on December 22, 2023, President Biden signed the   
National Defense Authorization Act (``NDAA'') for Fiscal Year 2024,   
Public Law 118-31, which, among other matters, established new  
  
[[Page 35029]]  
  
authorities and requirements relating to defense trade between or among   
Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. These new   
authorities and requirements are contained in section 1343 of the NDAA   
for Fiscal Year 2024, which created a new section 38(l) in the Arms   
Export Control Act (AECA) (22 U.S.C. 2778(l)). Certain of these   
requirements include a determination and certification as to whether   
Australia and the United Kingdom have implemented systems of export   
controls that are comparable to those of the United States in several   
specified areas. If one or both partner nation's systems are determined   
and certified to meet the listed standards related to export controls   
in the AECA, and if the partner nation has implemented a comparable   
exemption from its export controls for the United States, the   
Department would immediately implement an ITAR exemption, subject to   
certain statutory limitations, for the partner nation(s) to which the   
positive certification applies. A separate provision, section 1344 of   
the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2024, calls for regulatory action to establish   
an expedited decision-making process for license applications to export   
certain commercial, advanced-technology defense articles and defense   
services to Australia, the United Kingdom, and Canada. These proposed   
amendments stand to enhance security cooperation and collaboration with   
two of our closest allies.  
    The Department is proposing an ITAR amendment in the interest of   
preparing for a future exemption and obtaining public feedback to shape   
a final rule following any positive certification. The proposed new   
exemption, designed to implement the provisions of new section 38(l) of   
the AECA, would be located in ITAR Sec.  126.7 and would provide that   
no license or other approval is required for the export, reexport,   
retransfer, or temporary import of defense articles; the performance of   
defense services; or engagement in brokering activities between or   
among designated authorized users within Australia, the United Kingdom,   
and the United States provided certain requirements and limitations are   
met. These include a list of excluded defense articles and defense   
services not eligible for the exemption, which can be found in a   
proposed new Supplement No. 2 to Part 126. The scope of excluded   
defense articles and defense services remain subject to revision and   
the Department welcomes comment on proposed Supplement No. 2 to Part   
126. Further details regarding the requirements and limitations of the   
proposed exemption are as follows:  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(1), the exemption may only be used for   
transfers to or within the physical territory of Australia, the United   
Kingdom, or the United States, per AECA section 38(l)(1)(C)(2).  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(2), the pool of eligible members, known   
as authorized users, is created to facilitate secure defense trade and   
cooperation. Australia and the United Kingdom's members will undergo an   
authorized user enrollment process, in coordination with DDTC, and   
those members will be listed through the DDTC website. Members located   
in the United States must be registered with DDTC and not debarred   
under ITAR Sec.  127.7. The UK and Australia authorized users may   
request that DDTC provide confirmation of the status of U.S. authorized   
users. As these lists are subject to change, DDTC will confirm the   
eligibility of parties under this exemption prior to the transfer   
(e.g., export, temporary import, reexport, etc.) of defense articles or   
defense services.  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(3), the defense articles and defense   
services listed in Supplement No. 2 to Part 126 are not eligible for   
this proposed exemption. These items are excluded from eligibility   
under the proposed exemption because (1) they are exempted from   
eligibility by statute, including AECA section 38(j)(1)(C)(ii), or (2)   
are specifically exempted by either the UK, Australia, or the United   
States, per AECA section 38(l)(4)(A). For those items excluded from   
eligibility to be transferred under this proposed exemption by the   
United States, the U.S. government assessed that the defense articles   
and defense services in the list require a license or other approval   
from DDTC due to their importance to the national security and foreign   
policy interests of the United States. These items are, however,   
subject to the expedited licensing procedures listed in Sec.  126.15   
and may be reviewed and revised during the lifetime of the exemption.   
The Department notes that Supplement No. 2 to Part 126 lists the USML   
entries in column 1 that represent the location of the excluded defense   
articles and defense services within the USML. A USML category's   
listing in column 1 does not indicate the entire USML category is   
excluded; only the portions of those entries that are further described   
in column 2 are excluded. When reviewing the list of exclusions,   
careful review of all relevant entries is required. For example, when   
determining whether manufacturing know-how and source code described in   
USML Category IV(i) is excluded, entries such as exclusions for   
technical data designated as Missile Technology (MT) or directly   
related to anti-tamper articles may apply, and manufacturing know-how   
and source code are each addressed in separate exclusion entries:  
    [cir] IV(a), (b), and (g): Manufacturing know-how and source code   
directly related to articles in these paragraphs are both excluded.  
    [cir] IV(c): Manufacturing know-how directly related to articles in   
this paragraph is not excluded, but directly related source code is   
excluded.  
    [cir] IV(d) and (h): Manufacturing know-how directly related to   
articles in these paragraphs is excluded, but directly related source   
code is not excluded.  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(4), transferors that use this proposed   
exemption must abide by this requirement for recordkeeping purposes,   
and such records must be made available to DDTC upon request.  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(5), the limitations provided exclude   
exemption use for transfers that would require certification to   
Congress pursuant to sections 36(c) and 36(d) of the AECA.  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(6) and (7), the Department is   
reiterating other ITAR provisions to underscore that the proposed   
exemption is subject to other requirements within the subchapter, and   
the named sections are not an exhaustive list.  
     In Sec.  126.7(b)(8), the Department is establishing that   
classified defense articles and defense services are eligible for   
transfer under this exemption provided the authorized users in the   
United States, Australia, and the United Kingdom meet their respective   
industrial security requirements. For authorized users in the United   
States, this is the National Industrial Security Program Operating   
Manual (NISPOM) (32 CFR part 117) and, for Restricted Data, the Atomic   
Energy Act of 1954, as amended. For Australian authorized users, this   
is the Defence Security Principles Framework (DSPF) Principle 16 and   
Control 16.1, Defence Industry Security Program, and for United Kingdom   
authorized users this is the Government Functional Standards (GovS)   
007: Security.  
     The Department is also proposing to add a provision to the   
exemption in ITAR Sec.  126.18 to allow certain dual nationals of   
Australia and the United Kingdom to receive classified defense articles   
without a separate license from DDTC. These persons must be authorized   
users of the exemption in Sec.  126.7 or regular employees of such   
authorized users in Sec.  126.7, hold a security clearance approved by   
Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States that is equivalent   
to the classification level of SECRET or above  
  
[[Page 35030]]  
  
in the United States, and be located within the physical territory of   
Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States or be a member of   
the armed forces of Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States   
acting in their official capacity. The proposed addition of Sec.    
126.18(e) is to facilitate the use of the exemption at Sec.  126.7 and   
allow dual nationals of another country, and Australia or the United   
Kingdom, to transfer classified defense articles provided the listed   
criteria, as described in Sec.  126.18(e), are met.  
     Lastly, the Department is proposing to revise Sec.  126.15   
per the provisions of section 1344 of the NDAA for Fiscal Year 2024.   
This revised text would note the review of license applications for   
exports of certain commercial, advanced-technology defense articles and   
defense services to or between the physical territories of Australia,   
the United Kingdom, or Canada, and are with government or corporate   
entities from such countries, shall be processed within certain   
timeframes. The subject export must not be eligible for transfer under   
an ITAR exemption. License requests related to a government-to-  
government agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada   
and the United States must be approved, returned, or denied within 30   
days of submission. For all other license applications subject to this   
section, any review shall be completed no later than 45 calendar days   
after the date of the application. The Department notes that the   
existing language in Sec.  126.15 paragraphs (a) and (b) are separate   
ITAR provisions implementing requirements that originated in the NDAA   
for Fiscal Year 2005.  
    The Department issues this proposed rulemaking noting that the AECA   
requires that an exemption must be immediately implemented when the   
Department certifies that Australia and/or the United Kingdom meet the   
requirements of section 38(l)(1)(A). The exemption contemplated by this   
proposed rule is designed to execute this requirement. This proposed   
rule is being published in order to solicit public comment on the   
clarity and utility of such an exemption, and related proposed changes,   
including the list of excluded defense articles and defense services   
found at the proposed Supplement No. 2 to Part 126.  
    Finally, the Department notes the changes to Sec.  126.15 of this   
proposed rule may be implemented by a separate final rule, based on   
timing and statutory constraints.  
  
Regulatory Analysis and Notices  
  
Administrative Procedure Act  
  
    This rulemaking is exempt from the notice-and-comment rulemaking   
requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) pursuant to 5   
U.S.C. 553(a)(1) as a military or foreign affairs function of the   
United States Government. Despite this exemption, the Department has   
elected to publish this proposed rule for public comment.  
  
Regulatory Flexibility Act  
  
    Since this rule is exempt from the notice-and-comment provisions of   
5 U.S.C. 553 as a military or foreign affairs function, the rule does   
not require analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act.  
  
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995  
  
    This rulemaking does not involve a mandate that will result in the   
expenditure by State, local, and tribal governments, in the aggregate,   
or by the private sector, of $100 million or more in any year and it   
will not significantly or uniquely affect small governments. Therefore,   
no actions are deemed necessary under the provisions of the Unfunded   
Mandates Reform Act of 1995.  
  
Executive Orders 12372 and 13132  
  
    This rulemaking will not have substantial direct effects on the   
States, on the relationship between the national government and the   
States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the   
various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive   
Order 13132, it is determined that this proposed amendment does not   
have sufficient federalism implications to require consultations or   
warrant the preparation of a federalism summary impact statement. The   
regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding   
intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities do   
not apply to this rulemaking.  
  
Executive Orders 12866, 14094 and 13563  
  
    Executive Order 12866, as amended by Executive Order 14094, and   
Executive Order 13563 direct agencies to assess all costs and benefits   
of available regulatory alternatives and, if regulation is necessary,   
to select regulatory approaches that maximize net benefits (including   
potential economic, environmental, public health and safety effects,   
distributed impacts, and equity). Executive Order 13563 emphasizes the   
importance of quantifying both costs and benefits, of reducing costs,   
of harmonizing rules, and of promoting flexibility. Because the scope   
of this rule does not impose additional regulatory requirements or   
obligations, the Department believes costs associated with this rule   
will be minimal. Regarding the proposed exemption, Australia and the   
United Kingdom, as set forth in the Section 655 reports required   
annually by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, are   
ordinarily among the most commonly-licensed destinations for transfers   
subject to the ITAR. The Department expects that fewer license   
applications will be submitted as a result of this rule for authorized   
users that meet the criteria of the exemption, for eligible transfers   
of defense articles and defense services to and between Australia, the   
United Kingdom, and the United States. Consequently, this exemption   
will relieve licensing burdens for some exporters. Regarding the   
expedited licensing review process when an ITAR exemption is not   
available for use, the Department expects minimal costs associated with   
this provision for the public, with the benefit of license applications   
involving Australia, the United Kingdom, or Canada being subject to   
faster adjudication. The Department is seeking public comment on its   
assessment of the costs and benefits of this proposed rule. This rule   
has been designated as a significant regulatory action by the Office   
and Information and Regulatory Affairs under Executive Order 12866.  
  
Executive Order 12988  
  
    The Department of State has reviewed this rulemaking in light of   
Executive Order 12988 to eliminate ambiguity, minimize litigation,   
establish clear legal standards, and reduce burden.  
  
Executive Order 13175  
  
    The Department of State has determined that this rulemaking will   
not have tribal implications, will not impose substantial direct   
compliance costs on Indian tribal governments, and will not preempt   
tribal law. Accordingly, Executive Order 13175 does not apply to this   
rulemaking.  
  
Paperwork Reduction Act  
  
    This rulemaking does not impose or revise any information   
collections subject to 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35.  
  
List of Subjects in 22 CFR Part 126  
  
    Arms and munitions, Exports.  
  
    For the reasons set forth above, title 22, chapter I, subchapter M,   
part 126 is proposed to be amended as follows:  
  
[[Page 35031]]  
  
PART 126--GENERAL POLICIES AND PROVISIONS  
  
0  
1. The authority citation for part 126 is revised to read as follows:  
  
    Authority:  22 U.S.C. 287c, 2651a, 2752, 2753, 2776, 2778, 2779,   
2779a, 2780, 2791, 2797; Sec. 1225, Pub. L. 108-375, 118 Stat. 2091;   
Sec. 7045, Pub. L. 112-74, 125 Stat. 1232; Sec. 1250A, Pub. L 116-  
92, 133 Stat. 1665; Sec. 205, Pub. L. 116-94, 133 Stat. 3052; Secs.   
1343 and 1344, Pub. L. 118-31, 137 Stat. 510; E.O. 13637, 78 FR   
16129, 3 CFR, 2013 Comp., p. 223.  
  
0  
2. Add Sec.  126.7 to read as follows:  
  
  
Sec.  126.7  Exemption for defense trade and cooperation among   
Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.  
  
    (a) No license or other approval is required for the export,   
reexport, retransfer, or temporary import of defense articles, the   
performance of defense services, or engagement in brokering activities   
as described in part 129 of this subchapter, between or among   
authorized users of this exemption, subject to the requirements and   
limitations in paragraph (b) of this section.  
    (b) The exemption described in paragraph (a) of this section is   
subject to the following requirements and limitations:  
    (1) The transfer must be to or within the physical territory of   
Australia, the United Kingdom, or the United States;  
    (2) The transferor and recipient must be:  
    (i) U.S. persons registered with the Directorate of Defense Trade   
Controls (DDTC) and not debarred under Sec.  127.7 of this subchapter;   
or  
    (ii) Authorized users identified through the DDTC website;  
    (3) The defense article or defense service is not identified in   
Supplement No. 2 to part 126 of this subchapter as ineligible for   
transfer under this exemption;  
    (4) The transferor shall maintain records of each transfer   
available to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls upon request,   
including a description of the defense article or defense service; the   
name and address of the recipient and the end-user, and other available   
contact information (e.g., telephone number and electronic mail   
address); the name of the natural person responsible for the   
transaction; the stated end use of the defense article or defense   
service; the date of the transaction; and the method of transfer;  
    (5) The value of the transfer does not exceed the amounts described   
in Sec.  123.15 of this subchapter and does not involve the   
manufacturing abroad of significant military equipment as described in   
Sec.  124.11 of this subchapter;  
    (6) The transfer is subject to meeting the requirements of this   
subchapter, to include Sec. Sec.  120.15(d) and 120.16 of this   
subchapter, parts 122 and 123 of this subchapter (except insofar as   
exemption from licensing requirements is herein authorized) and Sec.    
126.1 of this subchapter, and the requirement to obtain non-transfer   
and use assurances for all significant military equipment;  
    (7) Transferors must comply with the requirements of ITAR Sec.    
123.9(b) of this subchapter; and  
    (8) For U.S. authorized users, transfers of classified defense   
articles and defense services must meet the requirements in 32 CFR part   
117, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM)   
and, for Restricted Data, the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.   
Australian authorized users must meet the requirements in the Defence   
Security Principles Framework (DSPF) Principle 16 and Control 16.1,   
Defence Industry Security Program, and United Kingdom authorized users   
must meet the requirements in the Government Functional Standards GovS   
007: Security.  
* * * * *  
0  
3. In Sec.  126.15, revise the section heading and add paragraphs (c)   
and (d) to read as follows:  
  
  
Sec.  126.15  Expedited processing of license applications for the   
export of defense articles and defense services to Australia, the   
United Kingdom, or Canada.  
  
* * * * *  
    (c) Any application submitted for authorization of the export of   
defense articles or defense services to Australia, the United Kingdom,   
or Canada, describing an export that cannot be undertaken under an   
exemption provided in this subchapter, will be expeditiously processed   
by the Department of State. The prospective export must occur wholly   
within, or between the physical territories of Australia, the United   
Kingdom, Canada, or the United States, and between governments or   
corporate entities from such countries.  
    (d) Any license application in paragraph (c) of this section to   
export defense articles and defense services related to a government-  
to-government agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom, or   
Canada and the United States must be approved, returned, or denied   
within 30 days of submission. For all other license applications, any   
review shall be completed no later than 45 calendar days after the date   
of the application. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to   
any applications which require congressional certification.  
0  
4. In Sec.  126.18, add paragraph (e) to read as follows:  
  
  
Sec.  126.18  Exemptions regarding intra-company, intra-organization,   
and intra-governmental transfers to employees who are dual nationals or   
third-country nationals.  
  
* * * * *  
    (e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no   
license is required for the transfer of classified defense articles to   
citizens of Australia or the United Kingdom who:  
    (1) Are dual nationals of another country;  
    (2) Are authorized users, or regular employees of an authorized   
user of the exemption in Sec.  126.7;  
    (3) Hold a security clearance approved by Australia, the United   
Kingdom, or the United States that is equivalent to the classification   
level of SECRET or above in the United States; and  
    (4) Are either:  
    (i) Within the physical territory of Australia, the United Kingdom,   
or the United States; or  
    (ii) A member of the armed forces of Australia, the United Kingdom,   
or the United States acting in their official capacity.  
0  
5. Add Supplement No. 2 to Part 126 to read as follows:  
Supplement No. 2 to Part 126--Excluded Technology List  
    Supplement No. 2 lists the defense articles and defense services   
excluded from the scope of the exemption provided at Sec.  126.7 of   
this subchapter. USML entries in column 1 represent the location of the   
excluded defense articles and defense services within the USML and does   
not indicate the entire USML entry in column 1 is excluded; only the   
portions of those entries that are further described in column 2 are   
excluded.  
  
[[Page 35032]]  
  
  
  
------------------------------------------------------------------------  
            USML entry                            Exclusion  
------------------------------------------------------------------------  
I through XV, and XX..............  Missile Technology Control Regime  
                                     (MTCR) articles, as annotated on  
                                     the USML by an ``MT'' designation;  
                                     and directly related technical data  
                                     and defense services.  
I through XX......................  Readily identifiable anti-tamper  
                                     articles, not already installed in  
                                     the commodity they are intended to  
                                     protect; and directly related  
                                     technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
II(k), III(e), IV(i), VI(g), and    Source code, directly related to  
 XIX(g).                             articles described in USML  
                                     Categories II(a)(4), II(d),  
                                     II(j)(12) or (16), III(d)(1) or  
                                     (2), IV(a), (b), (c), or (g), VI(a)  
                                     or (c), or XIX(e), beyond that  
                                     required for build-to-print, design-  
                                     to-specification, or basic  
                                     operation, maintenance, or  
                                     training, unless export is pursuant  
                                     to a written solicitation or  
                                     contract issued or awarded by the  
                                     U.S. Department of Defense for a  
                                     pre-determined end-use.  
II(k), III(e), IV(i), X(e), and     Manufacturing know-how (see Sec.  
 XIX(g).                             120.43(e)) directly related to:  
                                    --articles described in USML  
                                     Categories II(d), III(d)(1) or (2),  
                                     IV(a), (b), (d), (g), or (h),  
                                     X(a)(1) or (2), or XIX; or  
                                    --parts, components, accessories, or  
                                     attachments that are only used in  
                                     those articles.  
XI(d) and XII(f)..................  Classified manufacturing know-how  
                                     directly related to:  
                                    --articles described in USML  
                                     Categories XI(a)(3) or (4), or  
                                     XII(d); or  
                                    --parts, components, accessories, or  
                                     attachments that are only used in  
                                     those articles.  
II(j)(9) through (11), and (k)....  Articles described in USML Category  
                                     II(j)(9) through (11) that are not  
                                     an element of an armament, weapon,  
                                     or military platform; and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
III(a)(9) and (e); IV(a)(5) and     Cluster munitions and articles  
 (6), (b)(2), (c), (g), (h), and     specially designed for cluster  
 (i); VI(f)(6) and (g); VIII(h)(6)   munitions; and directly related  
 and (i); XI(c) and (d); XII(a),     technical data and defense  
 (d), (e), and (f); and XX(c) and    services.  
 (d).  
IV(a)(3), (9), (10), and (11),      Articles described in USML Category  
 (b)(2), (h)(5), and (i).            IV(a)(3), (9), (10), or (11),  
                                     (b)(2), or (h)(5); and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
V(a)(13)(iii) and (iv),             Articles described in USML Category  
 (a)(23)(iii), (d)(3), (i), and      V(a)(13)(iii) or (iv),  
 (j).                                (a)(23)(iii), or (d)(3); articles,  
                                     other than propellants, described  
                                     in USML Category V(i); and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
VI(e), (f)(5), and (g); and         Articles described in USML Category  
 XX(b)(1), (c), and (d).             VI(e) or (f)(5), or XX(b)(1);  
                                     articles specially designed for  
                                     articles described in USML Category  
                                     XX(b)(1); and directly related  
                                     technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
VIII(a)(2), (h)(1), and (i).......  The F-22 aircraft and articles  
                                     specially designed for the  
                                     F[dash]22, other than those also  
                                     used in aircraft other than the F-  
                                     22; and directly related technical  
                                     data and defense services.  
X(a)(7)(ii), (d)(2) and (3), and    Articles described in USML Category  
 (e).                                X(a)(7)(ii); articles specially  
                                     designed therefor; and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
XI(a) through (d); and XIII(b) and  Classified countermeasures and  
 (l).                                counter-countermeasures described  
                                     in USML Category XI(a) and  
                                     specially designed parts,  
                                     components, accessories, and  
                                     attachments therefor, other than  
                                     underwater acoustic decoy  
                                     countermeasures.  
                                    Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XI(b) or XIII(b).  
                                    Articles specially designed for  
                                     commodities or software described  
                                     in USML Category XIII(b).  
                                    Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XI(c) directly  
                                     related to cryptographic systems.  
                                    Articles directly related to naval  
                                     acoustic spectrum control and  
                                     awareness described in USML  
                                     Category XI(a)(1)(i) and (ii) and  
                                     (c) and directly related technical  
                                     data and defense services.  
XII(d)(3) and (f).................  Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XII(d)(3) and  
                                     directly related technical data and  
                                     defense services; and source code  
                                     and classified technical data and  
                                     defense services directly related  
                                     to night vision commodities  
                                     described in USML Category  
                                     XII(c)(1) or (2), or (e), beyond  
                                     basic operations, maintenance, and  
                                     training information.  
XIII(d)(2) and (l)................  Articles described in USML Category  
                                     XIII(d)(2); and directly related  
                                     technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
XIV(a), (b), (c)(5), (f)(1), (i),   Articles described in USML Category  
 and (m).                            XIV(a), (b), (c)(5), (f)(1), or  
                                     (i); and directly related technical  
                                     data and defense services.  
XV(a), (e), and (f)...............  Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XV(a) or (e); and  
                                     directly related classified  
                                     technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
XVI...............................  Articles described in USML Category  
                                     XVI; and directly related technical  
                                     data and defense services.  
XVIII.............................  Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XVIII specially  
                                     designed for counter-space  
                                     operations; and directly related  
                                     classified technical data and  
                                     defense services.  
XIX(e), (f)(1) and (2), and (g)...  Classified articles described in  
                                     USML Category XIX(e), (f)(1), or  
                                     (f)(2), not already integrated into  
                                     a complete engine; and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
XX(b)(2), (c), and (d)............  Articles described in USML Category  
                                     XX(b)(2); articles specially  
                                     designed therefor; and directly  
                                     related technical data and defense  
                                     services.  
XX(d).............................  Manufacturing know-how (see Sec.  
                                     120.43(e)) directly related to:  
                                    --crewed vessels, or classified  
                                     uncrewed vessels, described in USML  
                                     Category XX(a); or  
                                    --articles described in USML  
                                     Category XX(b) or (c) that are:  
                                    [cir] used only in crewed vessels,  
                                    [cir] directly related to classified  
                                     payloads, or  
                                    [cir] directly related to classified  
                                     Uncrewed Underwater Vehicle (UUV)  
                                     signature reduction techniques.  
XXI...............................  Commodities, software, technical  
                                     data, and defense services, unless  
                                     specifically designated as eligible  
                                     for the AUKUS exemption in State's  
                                     written Category XXI determination.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
  
Bonnie D. Jenkins,  
Under Secretary, Arms Control and International Security, Department of   
State.  
[FR Doc. 2024-08829 Filed 4-30-24; 8:45 am]  
BILLING CODE 4710-25-P  
  
# Situation    
  
I am helping an expert writer analyze draft an analysis for the proposed rule.  
  
# Section of the draft I am providing research for  
  
Excluded Defense Articles and Services    
  
# What the section is about  
  
Discusses the list of defense articles and services excluded from the proposed exemption and the rationale behind these exclusions.    
  
# My Expertise     
        
Type: Military    
Specialized knowledge: Advanced Military Technologies    
  
# Reason they asked for my expertise    
  
To assess the impact of excluding certain defense articles and services on military cooperation among AUKUS nations.  


====

What do I need to know from the Proposed Rule to conduct the necessary research to help the expert writer draft the analysis for the section on Excluded Defense Articles and Services?

Return your response in a Json document that is an array of steps to take.  Each step will have 3 possible actoins.

1. Use an LLM to ask a specific question regarding the rule with the rule as grounding content.
2. Create a list of search terms to research articles on the topic.
3. A combination of 1 and then 2 based on the answer.

You can have as many steps as you think are necessary to get the information needed.